# MGen

You've ended up at the MGen github repository!
This is where you can download the MGen source and learn how to build it. 

**If you want to know what MGen is head over to our [preliminary project pages](http://culvertsoft.github.io/mgen/)**

---

* [Building MGen](#building-mgen)
* [State of Development](#state-of-development)
* [Feature road map](#feature-road-map)
* [License](#license)
* [Words regarding object references](#words-regarding-object-references)


## Building MGen

If you're not satisfied with downloading pre-built libraries, this section briefly explains how you build MGen from source.

Build Requirements (Build):
  * Java JDK >= 1.7
  * Python 2.x>=2.7 or 3
  * SBT >= 1.3.5 (Use the installer from http://www.scala-sbt.org/download.html)

Build Requirements (Test):
  * same as above +
  * CMAKE >= 2.8
  * MSVC>=2005 or g++>=4 or Clang. (should work with any c++98 compiler)
  * msbuild (if using MSVC)

Build Instructions:
  * clone the repo
  * python build.py --help [example: "python build.py -b" for just building]

Output will be placed inside each mgen-component's target/ directory (e.g. mgen-api/target/).
 

## State of Development

Development is a about a month from an initial beta release. 

Most of the core functionality is implemented and we've built about half the cross-language integration tests we want, but there are currently a few limitations:
 - Documentation is lacking.
 - We've not yet configured test boxes for all the platforms we want.
 - We're hoping to add parsers for xml schema, json schema and protocol buffers IDLs, but those are currently on the "nice-to-have-list"


## License

Dual-Licensed under:
 * GPL v2
 * Commercial license (will be available after initial release)



## Words regarding object references

MGen serializers and utilities are designed to be state-less. There is no common object graph preservation or node-to-node implementation with synchronization. This is a conscious design choice and also implies that the standard implementation of serializers do not support circular references. MGen serializers consider all data to be just that - data. MGen serializers have no concept of references or object identities (Although generated polymorphic code and data types in most languages are of reference types - during serialization they are treated as nothing more than data containers).

However, what this does is it gives us the advantage of supporting lossy and reordering protocols, priority based messaging etc without worrying about objects having all the necessary information to be reconstructed on receiving side. If you wish to send one message over http, another over a UDP socket and a third with smoke signals, in the opposite order, MGen won't really care.

We believe supporting identities and true object graphs should be the responsibility of the layer above, the layer syncronizing applications with with each other - not the data layer. We do have ideas to build such systems (ESBs, ORMs and common object graphs among application nodes and the like) on that support the MGen data model - but not as a part of MGen.

In short - we chose to separate the concerns of data representation from data identity and transport method - the two latter not being anything MGen is concerned with at this point, however not anything MGen will prevent either - You could implement your own object identity and graph system on top of types generated by MGen (Something we already did for our visual data model editor).
